## November 2024

- **Enhancement**: Data health signals in dbt Explorer are now available for Exposures, providing a quick view of data health while browsing resources. To view trust signal icons, go to dbt Explorer and click **Exposures** under the **Resource** tab. Refer to [Data health signals for resources](/docs/explore/data-health-signals) for more info.
- **Bug**: Identified and fixed an error with <Constant name="semantic_layer" /> queries that take longer than 10 minutes to complete.
- **Fix**: Job environment variable overrides in credentials are now respected for Exports. Previously, they were ignored.
- **Behavior change**: If you use a custom microbatch macro, set a [`require_batched_execution_for_custom_microbatch_strategy` behavior flag](/reference/global-configs/behavior-changes#custom-microbatch-strategy) in your `dbt_project.yml` to enable batched execution. If you don't have a custom microbatch macro, you don't need to set this flag as dbt will handle microbatching automatically for any model using the [microbatch strategy](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#how-microbatch-compares-to-other-incremental-strategies).
- **Enhancement**: For users that have Advanced CI's [compare changes](/docs/deploy/advanced-ci#compare-changes) feature enabled, you can optimize performance when running comparisons by using custom dbt syntax to customize deferral usage, exclude specific large models (or groups of models with tags), and more. Refer to [Compare changes custom commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands#compare-changes-custom-commands) for examples of how to customize the comparison command.
- **New**: SQL linting in CI jobs is now generally available in <Constant name="dbt" />. You can enable SQL linting in your CI jobs, using [SQLFluff](https://sqlfluff.com/), to automatically lint all SQL files in your project as a run step before your CI job builds. SQLFluff linting is available on [<Constant name="dbt" /> release tracks](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) and to <Constant name="dbt" /> [Team or Enterprise](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/) accounts. Refer to [SQL linting](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration#sql-linting) for more information.
- **New**: Use the [`dbt_valid_to_current`](/reference/resource-configs/dbt_valid_to_current) config to set a custom indicator for the value of `dbt_valid_to` in current snapshot records (like a future date). By default, this value is `NULL`. When configured, dbt will use the specified value instead of `NULL` for `dbt_valid_to` for current records in the snapshot table. This feature is available in [the dbt Cloud **Latest** release track](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) (formerly called  `Versionless`) and dbt Core v1.9 and later.
- **New**: Use the [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) configuration to specify "at what time did the row occur." This configuration is required for [Incremental microbatch](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch) and can be added to ensure you're comparing overlapping times in [Advanced CI's compare changes](/docs/deploy/advanced-ci). Available in [the dbt Cloud **Latest** release track](/docs/dbt-versions/cloud-release-tracks) (formerly called `Versionless`) and dbt Core v1.9 and higher.
- **Fix**: This update improves [<Constant name="semantic_layer" /> Tableau integration](/docs/cloud-integrations/semantic-layer/tableau) making query parsing more reliable. Some key fixes include:
  - Error messages for unsupported joins between saved queries and ALL tables.
  - Improved handling of queries when multiple tables are selected in a data source.
  - Fixed a bug when an IN filter contained a lot of values.
  - Better error messaging for queries that can't be parsed correctly.
- **Enhancement**: The <Constant name="semantic_layer" /> supports creating new credentials for users who don't have permissions to create service tokens.  In the **Credentials & service tokens** side panel, the **+Add Service Token** option is unavailable for those users who don't have permission. Instead, the side panel displays a message indicating that the user doesn't have permission to create a service token and should contact their administration. Refer to [Set up <Constant name="semantic_layer" />](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl) for more details.